**_Copy on Write_**: Concurrent collections utilizing this scheme are suitable for read-heavy use cases. An immutable copy is created of the backing collection and whenever a write operation is attempted, the copy is discarded and a new copy with the change is created. Reads of the collection don't require any synchronization, though `synchronization` is needed briefly when the new arry is being created. Ex: **CopyOnWriteArrayList** and **_CopyonWriteArraySet_**

**_Compare and Swap_**: Consider a computation in which the value of a single variable is used as input to a long-running calculation whose eventual result is used to update the variable. Traditional synchronization makes the whole computation atomic, excluding any other thread from concurrently accessing the variable. This reduces opportunities for parrell execution and hurts throughput. An algorithm based on CAS behaves differently: it makes a local copy of the variable and perform the calculation without getting exclusive access. Only when it is ready to update the variable does it call CAS, which in one atomic operation compares the variable's value with its value at the start and, if are the same updates it with the new value. If they are not the same, the variable must have been modified by another thread; in this sitution, the CAS thread can try the whole computation again using the new value, or give up, or--in some algorithms -- continue, because the interference will have actually done its work for it. Ex: `ConcurrentLinkedQueue` and `ConcurrentSkipListMap`

**_Lock_**: Some collection classes use `Lock` to divide up the collection into multiple parts that can be locked separately resulting in improved concurrency. For example: `LinkedBlockQueue` has separate lock for the head and tail ends of the queue, so that elements can be added and removed in parallel. Other collections using these locks include `ConcurrentHashMap` and most of the implementation of `BlockingQueue`.